docs(how-to): rpn-san (#219)
scaleway/docs-content: dedibox-network/rpn/how-to/connect-rpn-san.mdx

---
meta:
  title: How to connect a Dedibox to RPN SAN

>   description: This page explains how to cconnect a Dedibox to RPN SAN

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  description: This page explains how to connect a Dedibox to RPN SAN
```

content:
  h1: How to connect a Dedibox to RPN SAN

>   paragraph: This page explains how to cconnect a Dedibox to RPN SAN

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  paragraph: This page explains how to connect a Dedibox to RPN SAN
```

dates:
  validation: 2021-07-16
  posted: 2021-07-16
---

> [RPN SAN](https://www.scaleway.com/en/dedibox/storage/rpn-san/) is a SAN storage network solution (Storage Area Network) accessible in block mode, performance-oriented and available in iSCSI through the RPN private network of your Dedibox.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[RPN SAN](https://www.scaleway.com/en/dedibox/storage/rpn-san/) is a performance-oriented SAN storage network solution (Storage Area Network) accessible in block mode and available in iSCSI through the RPN private network of your Dedibox.
```

<Message type="requirement">

* You have an account and are logged into the [Dedibox Console](https://console.online.net)
* You have a Dedibox dedicated server
* You have a RPN SAN 

</Message>

<Message type="important">

> - RPN SAN does not support RPNv2. To use RPNv2, you either need a server with an RPNv1 connection **or** to [enable the RPNv1 gateway](configure-rpnv1-gateway).

Reviewer: markdown is broken in the message box upon display

</Message>

<Message type="important">

> - RPN SAN does not support RPNv2. To use it you need either a server having a RPNv1 connection or [enable the RPNv1 gateway](configure-rpnv1-gateway).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- RPN SAN does not support RPNv2. To use RPNv2, you either need a server with an RPNv1 connection **or** to [enable the RPNv1 gateway](configure-rpnv1-gateway).
```

## How to add a SAN to a RPN group

> Recent SANs require to be member of a RPN group to be accessible. They can be identified by the following message that displays on the SANs overview page: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Recent SANs must be a member of an RPN group to be accessible. They can be identified by the following message that displays on the SANs overview page: 
```

<Message type="tip">

> If your SAN is located on a SAN target >24 for SAN HA or >24 for SAN basic you need to add the RPN SAN to your RPN group to access it. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your SAN is located on a SAN target >24 for SAN HA or >24 for SAN basic, you need to add the RPN SAN to your RPN group to access it. 
```
